ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS


COMPUTER BASICS


Ques. 1:- What is a computer ?
Ans:- Computer is a reprogrammable device that stores and process data in binary form in accordance with commands from the written source of a program code.
Ques. 2:- What is RAM ?
Ans:- RAM stands for Random Access Memory. It mainly refers to a collection of bytes. It is an example of primary memory as it stores the data temporarily while the computer processor runs application on the system.
Ques. 3:- Where is data stored in the computer ?
Ans:- Data is stored in HDD( Hard Disk Drive) permanently via the process of Saving. Hard disk drive have more storage capacity than RAM . It also has folders /directories.
Ques. 4:- What is that input device used to type text and numbers on a document in the computer system ?
Ans:- Keyboard is the input device used to type text and numbers on a document in the computer system.
Ques. 5:- What are the output devices ?
Ans:- Output devices are the hardwares which receives the information from the computer and converts it into human understandable language.
Ques. 6:- Which is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor or pointer on the screen ?
Ans:- Mouse is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor on the screen.
Ques. 7:- Which language is directly understood by the computer without a translation program ?
Ans:- Machine Language is directly understood by the computer without a translation program.
Ques. 8:- What are Input Devices ?
Ans:-  Input devices are the set of hardware that sends data to your computer and allows the interaction of the user with the machine. 




FUNDAMENTALS OF JAVA


Ques. 1:- What is a programming language ?
Ans:- It refers to a set of notations i.e numbers,symbols or characters which is used to instruct a computer to follow a set of instructions.
Ques. 2:- Why do we need a programming language ?
Ans:- We need a programming language when we need to communicate with computer with the help of programming languages to perform certain tasks.
Ques. 3:- What are the features of Java ?
Ans:- The features of JAVA are -
* Object oriented programming language
* Platform independent
* Machine independent
* Portable in nature
* Simple to operate
* OS independent
* Has neutral architecture
* Has WORA Property (written once and run anywhere)
Ques. 4:- What is an object ?
Ans:- An Object is an entity with state and behaviour. It is a member of JAVA class. The state of an object is stored in the form of variables.
Ques. 5:- What is class ?
Ans:- Class is a collection of objects that have similar traits,behaviours and attributes. Class is a blueprint of an object.
Ques. 6:- Explain about the main() method in Java?
Ans:- Main() method is the entry point/ starting point of execution within a program. It is called by JVM to execute the program line by line and end the execution of the program.




JAVA VARIABLES AND DATA TYPES


Ques. 1:- What is Statically typed and Dynamically typed Programming Language ?
Ans:- Statically typed programming language is said to be statically typed if the memory of the variable is provided at time of compilation.
Dynamically typed programming language is said to be dynamically typed if memory of the variable is provided at time of execution.
Ques. 2:- What is the variable in JAVA ?
Ans:- Variable refers to the name of the memory allocated reserved area. It is mainly used to allocate/store data/information provided by the user.
Ques. 3:- How to assign a value in a variable ?
Ans:- Value in a variable is assigned by the following syntax:-
Type of data var_name=value;
Ques. 4:- What are Primitive data types in JAVA ?
Ans:-  Primitive data types in java are :- int,short,long,char,byte,float and double.
Ques. 5:- What are the identifiers in Java ?
Ans:- These are the sequences which are used to identify a specific data in the program.
Ques. 6:- List the operators in Java ?
Ans:- Operators in Java are the symbols used for performing specific operations in Java. Operators include tasks such as addition,subtraction,multiplication,comparison etc.
Ques. 7:- Explain about increment and decrement operators and give an example ?
Ans:- Increment operator is a type of unary operator. It is used to increase the value of the assigned value by 1.
Ex:- int x;
x=10;
x=x+1;
OUTPUT :- 11
Decrement operator is used to decrease the value of the assigned value by 1.
Ex:- int x;
x=10;
x=x-1;
OUTPUT :- 9